Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a secure cloud services platform, offering compute power,
database storage, content delivery and other functionality to help businesses scale and
grow.
In simple words AWS allows you to do the following things-
1. Running web and application servers in the cloud to host dynamic websites.
2. Securely store all your files on the cloud so you can access them from
anywhere.
3. Using managed databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle or SQL Server to
store information.
4. Deliver static and dynamic files quickly around the world using a Content
Delivery Network (CDN).
5. Send bulk email to your customers.
Now that you know what you can do with AWS, lets have an overview of various AWS
services.
Basic Terminologies
1. Region — A region is a geographical area. Each region consists of 2 (or more)
availability zones.
2. Availability Zone — It is simply a data center.
3. Edge Location — They are CDN (Content Delivery Network) endpoints for
CloudFront.Compute
1. EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) — These are just the virtual machines in the
cloud on which you have the OS level control. You can run whatever you want
in them.
2. LightSail — If you don’t have any prior experience with AWS this is for you.
It automatically deploys and manages compute, storage and networking
capabilities required to run your applications.
3. Lambda — AWS’s serverless technology that allows you to run functions in the
cloud. It’s a huge cost saver as you pay only when your functions execute.
Storage
1. S3 (Simple Storage Service) — Storage service of AWS in which we can store
objects like files, folders, images, documents, songs, etc. It cannot be used to
install software, games or Operating System.
2. Glacier — It is an extremely low-cost archival service to store files for a long
time like a few years or even decades.
Databases
1. RDS (Relational Database Service) — Allows you to run relational
databases like MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle or SQL Server. These
databases are fully managed by AWS like installing antivirus, Backup and
patches.
2. Elasticache — It is a way of caching data inside the cloud. It can be used to
take load off of your database by caching most frequent queries.
3. RedShift — It is AWS’s data warehousing solution that can be used to run
complex OLAP queries.Networking & Content Delivery
1. VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) — It is simply a data center in the cloud in which
you deploy all your resources. It allows you to better isolate your
resources and secure them.
2. CloudFront -It is AWS’s Content Delivery Network (CDN) that consists of Edge
locations that cache resources.
3. Route53 — It is AWS’s highly available DNS (Domain Name System) service.
You can register domain names through it.
Developer Tools
1. CodeStar — It is a cloud-based service for creating, managing, and working
with software development projects on AWS. You can quickly develop, build,
and deploy applications on AWS with an AWS CodeStar project.
2. CodeCommit — It is AWS’s version control service that allows you to store
your code and other assets privately in the cloud.
3. CodeBuild — It automates the process of building (compiling) your code.
4. CodeDeploy — It is a way of deploying your code in EC2 instances
automatically.
5. CodePipeline — Allows you to keep track of different steps in your
deployment like building, testing, authentication, and deployment on
development and production environments.
Management Tools
1. CloudWatch — It can be used to monitor AWS environments like CPU
utilization of EC2 and RDS instances and trigger alarms based on different
metrics.
2. CloudFormation — It is a way of turning infrastructure into the cloud. You can
use templates to provision a whole production environment in minutes.
3. CloudTrail — A way of auditing AWS resources. It logs all changes and API calls
made to AWS.
4. Config — It monitors your environment and notifies you when you break
certain configurations.5. Trusted Advisor — Gives you recommendations on how to do cost
optimizations, and secure your environment.
6. AWS Auto Scaling — Allows you to automatically scale your resources up and
down based on CloudWatch metrics.
7. Systems Manager — Allows you to group your resources, so you can quickly
gain insights, identify issues and act on them.
Analytics
1. Athena — Allows you to run SQL queries on your S3 bucket to find files.
2. CloudSearch — It can be used to create a fully managed search engine for
your website.
3. ElasticSearch — It is similar to CloudSearch but gives you more features like
application monitoring.
4. Kinesis — A way of streaming and analyzing real-time data at massive scale. It
can store TBs of data per hour.
5. Data Pipeline — Allows you to move data from one place to another. Eg: from
S3 to DynamoDB or vice versa.
6. QuickSight —A business analytics tool that allows you to create
visualizations in a rich dashboard for data in AWS. Eg: for S3, DynamoDB, etc.
Security, Identity, and Compliance
1. IAM (Identity and Access Management) — Allows you to manage users, assign
policies, create groups to manage multiple users.
2. Inspector — It is an agent that you install on our virtual machines, which
then reports any security vulnerabilities.
3. Certificate Manager — It gives free SSL certificates for your domains that are
managed by Route53.
4. Directory Service — A way of using your company’s account to log in to AWS.
5. WAF (Web Application Firewall) — Gives you application-level protection and
blocks SQL injection and cross-site scripting attacks.6. GuardDuty —Provides intelligent threat detection to protect your AWS
accounts and workloads
Application Services
1. SNS (Simple Notification Service) — Can be used to send you notifications in
the form of email and SMS regarding your AWS services. It is a push-based
service.
2. SQS (Simple Queue Service) — The first service offered by AWS. It can be used
to decouple your applications. It is a pull-based service.
3. Elastic Transcoder — Changes a video’s format and resolution to support
different devices like tablets, smartphones, and laptops of different
resolutions.
Mobile Services
1. Mobile Hub — Allows you to add, configure and design features for mobile
apps. It is a console for mobile app development.
2. Cognito — Allows your users to signup using social identity providers.
3. Device Farm — Enables you to improve quality of apps by quickly testing on
hundreds of mobile devices.
Business Productivity
1. Chime — Can be used for online meeting and video conferencing.
2. WorkDocs — Helps to store documents in the cloud
3. WorkMail — Allows you to send and receive business emails.
Desktop & App Streaming
1. WorkSpaces — It is a VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure). Allows you to use
remote desktops in the cloud
